---
title: SDG 4: Quality Education
author: Ramanya Kamutharat
thumbnail: /assets/articles/_thumbnails/thumb_13.jpg
---

The SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) are goals designed to be a
blueprint for a better and more sustainable future for all, comprising
17 goals, and 169 targets. They were set in September 2015 by the United
Nations General Assembly, New York, United States, and were expected to
be achieved by August 2030. To make it simpler, the SDGs are like goals
set by the UN for all nations to achieve by 2030 !

**Zooming in, What Is SDG 4 Talking about ?**

The full title of SDG 4 that we’re focusing on is "Ensure inclusive and
equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities
for all". It’s an SDG which mainly focuses on eliminating any kinds of
inequality in education, ensuring equal access for all genders, and
reducing educational disparities between the rich and the poor students
by making educational facilities more affordable and easily-accessed for
everyone.

**Recognizing the Problem**

Countries have different backgrounds, histories, and other
socio-economic conditions. We are different and not yet in the same
standards. Do you know that during this COVID-19 pandemic, while we’re
lucky enough to learn virtually on our cushioned sofas through our
IPads, at least 500 million students all over the world still cannot
afford adequate educational facilities and aren’t able to study decently
?

We, as well as the United Nations, are highly concerned about the
currently-remained prevalence of extreme poverty, insurgency, communal
conflicts, and many more that have significantly reduced the educational
progress in many areas of Thailand and other nations. It has been proved
that children from poor households have a higher probability of dropping
out halfway of school than those from rich backgrounds. Thus, it is now
evident enough for us to see that disparities between rural and urban
areas are still prevalent, and they are inevitably a cause for the
educational gap.

**Problems Cannot Solve Themselves**

That’s why they need your help! As an educational injustice and
discrimination are apparent, why don’t we do something ? Even though
we’re students, it doesn’t mean that we can’t make any changes. Let’s
begin with ourselves ! We can start by raising people’s awareness
through social media in order to make the problems noticeable for
authorities or any capable organizations, so they can take serious
actions. Of course, changes might not come in an instant, but doing so
is surely a nice start !

**SDGs คืออะไร ?**

SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals)
เป็นเป้าหมายที่ถูกออกแบบมาให้เป็นพิมพ์เขียวสำหรับอนาคตที่ยั่งยืนกว่าและดีกว่าสำหรับทุกคน
กำหนดไว้โดยสมัชชาใหญ่แห่งสหประชาติ นครนิวยอร์ก ประเทศสหรัฐอเมริกา
และตั้งเป้าที่จะทำให้สำเร็จภายในเดือนสิงหาคมปีค.ศ. 2030 ประกอบไปด้วย 17
เป้าหมายและ 169 เป้าประสงค์ ถ้าจะให้พูดง่าย ๆ SDGs
ก็เป็นเหมือนเป้าหมายที่สหประชาชาติได้ตั้งไว้เพื่อให้ทุกชาติทำให้สำเร็จภายในปี
2030 นั่นเอง !

**มาดูกันซิว่า SDG ข้อ 4 กำลังพูดถึงอะไร**

ชื่อเต็ม ๆ ของ SDG ข้อ 4 ที่เรากำลังเน้นอยู่ก็คือ
“จะรับรองการศึกษาที่มีคุณภาพ เท่าเทียม
ครอบคลุมและจะส่งเสริมโอกาสในการเรียนรู้ตลอดชีวิตอย่างไม่มีที่สิ้นสุดสำหรับทุกคน"
โดยมุ่งเน้นที่จะกำจัดความไม่เท่าเทียมกันทางการศึกษา
ไม่ว่าจะรูปแบบใดก็ตาม
รับรองสิทธิ์ในการเข้าถึงการศึกษาสำหรับทุกเพศอย่างเท่าเทียม
ลดความเหลื่อมล้ำทางการศึกษาระหว่างคนรวยและคนจน
โดยทำให้บริการทางการศึกษาต่าง ๆ
นั้นเข้าถึงง่ายและมีราคาที่จับต้องได้มากขึ้นสำหรับทุกคน

**การตระหนักรู้ถึงปัญหา**

ประเทศต่าง ๆ ล้วนมีพื้นเพ ประวัติศาสตร์
และเงื่อนไขทางสังคมและเศรษฐกิจที่แตกต่างกัน
พวกเราล้วนต่างกันและไม่ได้อยู่ในมาตรฐานเดียวกันด้วยซ้ำไป
รู้หรือไม่ว่าในระหว่างที่โลกกำลังเผชิญการแพร่ระบาดของ COVID-19
ในขณะที่พวกเรานั้นโชคดีพอที่จะได้ใช้ IPad นั่งเรียนออนไลน์กันบนโซฟานุ่ม
ๆ นั้น มีนักเรียนอย่างน้อย 500
ล้านคนทั่วโลกยังคงไม่สามารถเอื้อมถึงสิ่งอำนวยความสะดวกทางการศึกษาและยังไม่ได้รับการเรียนการสอนที่เหมาะสมด้วยซ้ำ

พวกเรา รวมไปถึงองค์การสหประชาชาติเอง ได้ตระหนักถึงปัญหาความขัดสน
การจลาจล
รวมไปถึงปัญหาภายในชุมชนและปัญหาอีกมากมายที่ยังคงหลงเหลืออยู่ในปัจจุบัน
ที่กำลังฉุดรั้งความก้าวหน้าทางการศึกษาทั้งในหลายพื้นที่ในประเทศไทยและประเทศอื่น
ๆ ด้วย มันได้รับการพิสูจน์แล้วว่าเด็กจากครอบครัวที่มีฐานะยากจนนั้น
มีความเป็นไปได้ที่จะออกจากโรงเรียนกลางคันมากกว่าเด็กที่ทางบ้านมีฐานะร่ำรวย
ฉะนั้นตอนนี้ก็ชัดเจนพอที่จะทำให้เราเห็นแล้วว่า
ความเหลื่อมล้ำระหว่างชนบทและเมืองนั้นยังคงสูงอยู่
นั่นจึงเป็นสาเหตุของช่องว่างทางการศึกษานั่นเอง

**ปัญหาไม่สามารถแก้ไขตัวเองได้**

เพราะแบบนี้จึงต้องการความช่วยเหลือ !
ในขณะที่ความไม่เป็นธรรมและการแบ่งชนชั้นทางการศึกษานั้นกำลังเกิดขึ้นอย่างชัดเจนมากพอที่จะทำให้เรารู้ตัวได้ขนาดนี้
ทำไมเราไม่ทำอะไรซักอย่างล่ะ ? ถึงแม้ว่าพวกเราจะเป็นนักเรียน
แต่ก็ไม่ได้หมายความว่าเราจะไม่สามารถสร้างความเปลี่ยนแปลงอะไรได้เลยนะ
เริ่มจากตัวเราเอง
เราสามารถเริ่มโดยการสร้างความตระหนักให้แก่คนทั่วไปได้ผ่านสื่อโซเชียลเพื่อที่จะสร้างความสนใจให้เจ้าหน้าที่หรือหน่วยงานที่มีความสามารถ
พวกเขาจะได้เข้ามาแก้ปัญหานี้อย่างจริงจังมากขึ้น
แน่นอนว่าการเปลี่ยนแปลงอาจไม่ได้ได้มาภายในเวลาอันชั่วครู่
แต่การทำเช่นนั้นคือการเริ่มต้นที่ดีอย่างแน่นอน !

<img src="assets/articles/TriamMUN-SDG4_assets/media/image1.jpg" style="width:5.24097in;height:3.42569in" />

<img src="assets/articles/TriamMUN-SDG4_assets/media/image2.png" style="width:6.61333in;height:1.03333in" />

**REFERENCES:**

United Nations. (2020). _Goal 4: Ensure inclusive and equitable quality
education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all._
Retrieved from:
[<u>https://sdgs.un.org/goals/goal4</u>](https://sdgs.un.org/goals/goal4)

United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Thailand. (n.d.) _Goal 4:
Quality Education._ Retrieved from:
[<u>https://www.th.undp.org/content/thailand/en/home/sustainable-development-goals/goal-4-quality-education.html</u>](https://www.th.undp.org/content/thailand/en/home/sustainable-development-goals/goal-4-quality-education.html)
