---
title: September 10: World Suicide Prevention Day
author: Natnicha Kaewtatip
thumbnail: /assets/articles/_thumbnails/thumb_14.jpg
---

We have been hearing about committing suicide from all over the world,
and this has continually happened, as committing suicide rate has been
increasing every year. Suicide Prevention Center of The United States
reports that committing suicide is the second leading cause of death in
the United States between the age of 10 to 24 after intentional injury.
What cause kids and adolescences to commit suicide ? Stress is the
causes of committing suicide, and pressure students to feel depressed.

Nowadays, students are working harder and harder to compete. They have
to compete with other students, themselves, and lastly, unreasonably
difficult exams. Competing can affect students in 2 ways: one is
inspiring, and the other is harmful.

What makes competing inspiring ? Some students might think that
competing is fun and motivational, as they take their rival, task, or
exams as the obstacles they have to overcome, and that will motivate
students to study harder and to be disciplined.

However, this only happens to some of the students who are used to
extreme competition or with high potential.

A lot of students cannot handle the tension, and that makes them start
to doubt themselves. They might have a thought that they are not good or
qualified enough. When students start to be unsure of their ability,
they will stop improving themselves, since there is no point to work
hard because no matter what they do, it is not going to be satisfied,
and these kinds of thoughts will make them feel like they are facing a
dead end. When people have no choice, they finally decided to commit
suicide.

World suicide prevention day is on September 10 of every year. It was
prescribed to decrease the amount of suicide cases, to raise awareness,
and to create understanding for all, since there have been continual
cases of committing suicide. And this is a backfire of competitiveness
in the society, especially the tension in schools that put too much
pressure on the students.

Schools must consider students as the fulcrum. Since school is a place
to educate children to be a qualified adult in the future, it is
understandable to put a lot of anticipation on them, but too much
anticipation may harm their students by pressuring them; on the other
hand, students who pressure themselves too much will be stressful and
depressed. Schools must consider not only students’ performance, but
also their mental condition. And as students, they need to maintain
their academic performance while staying mentally healthy.

To our future TU84, as we know that to be TU84 is not easy. Some of you
might be stressed or pressured, but this tension is a good motivation.
Take all your down feelings to motivate you to work harder, more
determined, be discipline, and continue to develop yourself.

ในปัจจุบัน การฆ่าตัวตายเป็นปัญหาที่เกิดขึ้นอย่างต่อเนื่องในทุก ๆ
ประเทศทั่วโลกและไม่มีแนวโน้มที่จะลดลง
โดยที่ศูนย์ป้องกันการฆ่าตายของสหรัฐอเมริกาได้เผยข้อมูลออกมาว่าการฆ่าตัวตายเป็นสาเหตุการตายอันดับสองของประชากรที่มีอายุตั้งแต่สิบปีถึงยี่สิบสี่ปีในสหรัฐอเมริกา
จากข้อมูลดังกล่าวแสดงให้เห็นว่ามีนักเรียน-นักศึกษาจำนวนมากที่ตัดสินใจฆ่าตัวตาย
ซึ่งเป็นสาเหตุมาจากความเครียด
โดยความเครียดและแรงกดดันอาจนำไปสู่การเป็นโรคซึมเศร้าแล้วเกิดการฆ่าตัวตายในที่สุด

นักเรียนและนักศึกษาจำนวนมากต้องพยายามอย่างหนักเพื่อแข่งขันกับเด็กคนอื่น
แข่งขันกับตัวของพวกเขาเอง และท้ายที่สุด
แข่งขันกับระดับความยากที่ไม่สมเหตุสมผลของข้อสอบ
ซึ่งการแข่งขันสามารถส่งผลต่อตัวของพวกเขาได้สองทางคือเป็นแรงผลักดัน
หรือไม่ก็เป็นสิ่งที่ฉุดรั้งพวกเขาจากความสำเร็จ

การแข่งขันสามารถเป็นแรงผลักดันและแรงบันดาลใจได้เมื่อตัวบุคคลมีทัศนคติที่ดีและมองการแข่งขันเป็นเรื่องสนุกและท้าทาย
มองคู่แข่ง งานต่าง ๆ และข้อสอบเป็นอุปสรรคที่ต้องก้าวข้าม
พวกเขาจะถูกกระตุ้นให้พยายามมากขึ้นรวมถึงมีวินัยมากขึ้น
ซึ่งนักเรียนที่สามารถรับมือกับเหตุการณ์เหล่านี้ได้จะต้องมีความคุ้นเคยกับระบบการแข่งขันและมีศักยภาพรวมถึงความยืดหยุ่น

ในทางกลับกัน นักเรียนจำนวนมากไม่สามารถรับมือกับความเครียดและแรงกดดันได้
ส่งผลให้พวกเขาเกิดความเคลือบแคลงในความสามารถของตนเองและมองว่าตนเองไม่ดีพอหรือไม่เก่งพอ
ความเคลือบแคลงนี้มีผลกระทบทำให้พวกเขาเลิกพัฒนาตนเอง
ด้วยความคิดที่ว่าความพยายามของพวกเขานั้นไร้ค่า
ไม่ว่าจะพยายามมากเท่าไหร่ผลก็ไม่เคยออกมาเป็นที่น่าพึงพอใจ
และรู้สึกเหมือนกับชีวิตได้เดินมาถึงทางตัน ซึ่งเมื่อพวกเขารู้สึกหมดหนทาง
ทางออกของพวกเขาคือการ ‘ฆ่าตัวตาย’

วันป้องกันการฆ่าตัวตายโลกตรงกับวันที่ 10 กันยายนของทุกปี
องค์การอนามัยโลกกำหนดให้วันดังกล่าวเป็นวันสำคัญคือวันป้องกันการฆ่าตัวตายโลก
ซึ่งเป็นวันที่ถูกกำหนดขึ้นเพื่อลดอัตราการฆ่าตัวตาย สร้างความตระหนักรู้
และสร้างความเข้าใจต่อปัญหา
เนื่องจากการฆ่าตัวตายได้เกิดขึ้นอย่างต่อเนื่องและยากที่จะควบคุม
อันเป็นผลมาจากอัตราการแข่งขันในสังคม
รวมถึงความเครียดที่เกิดขึ้นในนักเรียนและนักศึกษา

โรงเรียนจะต้องถือนักเรียนเป็นศูนย์กลาง
โดยการที่โรงเรียนเป็นสถานศึกษาที่พัฒนาเยาวชนให้เติบโตเป็นประชากรที่มีคุณภาพในอนาคต
ทำให้โรงเรียนมีความคาดหวังต่อนักเรียนของพวกเขา
แต่การคาดหวังเหล่านี้ก็อาจเป็นการกดดันที่ทำให้เกิดความเครียดแก่นักเรียนได้
ซึ่งความเครียดที่พวกเขาแบกรับสามารถทำให้เกิดอาการซึมเศร้า
สาเหตุหลักของการฆ่าตัวตาย
โรงเรียนจึงไม่ควรคำนึงถึงความสามารถทางวิชาการเพียงอย่างเดียว
แต่จะต้องคำนึงถึงสภาวะจิตใจของนักเรียนควบคู่ไปด้วย
นักเรียนเองนั้นก็จะต้องสามารถจัดการกับความเครียดได้และมีสุขภาพจิตที่แข็งแรง

สำหรับน้อง ๆ ว่าที่ TU84
อย่างที่รู้กันว่าการสอบเข้าเป็นอะไรที่คร่ำเคร่งเนื่องจากทั้งความยากของข้อสอบและการแข่งขันที่สูงมาก
ดังนั้นหลายคนอาจจะเครียดและกดดัน ซึ่งอาจนำไปสู่ความซึมเศร้า
รู้สึกไม่มีทางออก
แต่เราสามารถนำความกดดังที่เราได้รับมาเป็นแรงผลักดันให้เราตั้งใจมากขึ้นและขยันมากขึ้น
ซึ่งเป็นก้าวแรกในการพัฒนาตัวของเรานั่นเอง

**References:**

https://www.who.int/health-topics/suicide\#tab=tab\_2

https://www.who.int/images/default-source/departments/mental-health-2/suicide/age-income-level-2016.jpeg?sfvrsn=5b445c77\_2

https://www.psychiatry.org/patients-families/suicide-prevention
