---
title: SDG 10: Reduced Inequalities
author: Chawakorn Mesommonta
thumbnail: /assets/articles/_thumbnails/thumb_16.jpg
---

known as the Global Goals, which were adopted by all United Nations
Member States in 2015 as a universal call to action to end poverty,
protect the planet, and ensure that all people enjoy peace and
prosperity by 2030. There is a total of 17 SDGs. They are
integrated—that is, they recognize that action in one area will affect
outcomes in others, and that development must balance social, economic,
and environmental sustainability. Through the pledge to Leave No One
Behind, countries have committed to fast-track progress for those
furthest behind first. That is why the SDGs are designed to bring the
world to several life-changing ‘zeros’, including zero poverty, hunger,
AIDS and discrimination against women and girls.

The 17 SDGs include that of No Poverty, Zero Hunger, Good Health and
Well-being, Quality Education, Gender Equality, Clean Water and
Sanitation, Affordable and Clean Energy, Decent Work and Economic
Growth, Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure, Reduced Inequality,
Sustainable Cities and Communities, Responsible Consumption and
Production, Climate Action, Life Below Water, Life on Land, Peace and
Justice Strong Institutions, and Partnerships to achieve the Goal. But
in this article, we will focus on the 10<sup>th</sup> SDG, that is
Reduced Inequality.

In todays world, inequality takes on many forms such as inequality in
education, sex, work, or even in economy. Inequality has existed for a
long time now, for example in 1980, the top one percent had 16 percent
of global income. The bottom 50 percent had 8 percent of income, and in
2016, 22 percent of global income was received by the top 1 percent
compared with 10 percent of income for the bottom 50 percent. As you can
see, there isn’t that much change in equality for a long time now. There
will always be inequality in our world no matter when we are but what we
can do is the minimize the inequality or help those who are affected.
But how can we help those who are affected by the inequality ? Well,
these widening disparities require sound policies to empower lower
income earners and promote economic inclusion for all, regardless of
sex, race or ethnicity.

How can we help address inequality in our world today ? We can start by
reducing income inequalities, promoting universal social economic and
political inclusion, ensuring equal opportunities, and ending
discrimination, adopting fiscal and social policies that promote
equality, improving regulation of global financial markets and
institutions, enhancing representation for developing countries in
financial institutions, parallelism and reducing transaction costs for
migrant remittances.

One inequality that is seen very regularly is inequality in education.
As a TU student, I feel that TU students get a lot of praise and are
more above average students in most people’s eyes due to the fact that
TU students got into a school where the ratio of chance was 1:10. This
might seem good in most people’s eyes but this also causes a lot of
tension jealousy and inequality between TU students and other school
students. For example, TU students gets better access to resources and
environments that helps them improve intellectually enduringly and
mentally. The school helps creates a setting that gives out a positive
vibe and It makes students happy. Furthermore, the school also
encourages hard exams and club management by students so that students
can show their true talents to the school and the world. This is what
cause a lot of inequality with other schools because other schools don’t
have club management by students or a lot of high technology for
students to use so when someone says they are from TU other students may
despise them or just ignore them entirely due to jealousy.

To conclude, Reduced inequality will not be able to come to fruition if
not for the help of both the government and citizens alike. So, I
encourage whoever is reading this to spread the news about inequality
and help in any way you can because I believe that if we all work
together, we can achieve the goal of reducing inequality by the year of 2030.

SDG คืออะไร ? SDGs ย่อมาจากเป้าหมายการพัฒนาที่ยั่งยืนหรือที่เรียกว่า
Global Goals ซึ่งได้รับการรับรองโดยประเทศสมาชิกสหประชาชาติทั้งหมดในปี
2015
ในฐานะคำเรียกร้องให้ดำเนินการสากลเพื่อยุติความยากจนปกป้องโลกและรับประกันว่าทุกคนจะมีสันติภาพและความมั่งคั่งภายในปี 2573. มีทั้งหมด 17 SDGs.
พวกเขารวมเข้าด้วยกันนั่นคือพวกเขาตระหนักดีว่าการดำเนินการในด้านหนึ่งจะส่งผลต่อผลลัพธ์ของผู้อื่นและการพัฒนานั้นจะต้องสร้างความสมดุลทางสังคมเศรษฐกิจและความยั่งยืนของสิ่งแวดล้อม
ด้วยคำมั่นสัญญาที่จะไม่ทิ้งใครไว้เบื้องหลังประเทศต่าง ๆ
ได้มุ่งมั่นที่จะติดตามความคืบหน้าอย่างรวดเร็วสำหรับผู้ที่อยู่เบื้องหลังอันดับแรก
นั่นคือเหตุผลที่ SDGs ได้รับการออกแบบมาเพื่อนำโลกไปสู่ ​​‘ศูนย์’
ที่เปลี่ยนแปลงชีวิตซึ่งรวมถึงความยากจนความหิวโหยโรคเอดส์และการเลือกปฏิบัติต่อผู้หญิงและเด็กผู้หญิง

SDGs 17 ประการ ได้แก่
การไม่มีความยากจนไม่มีความหิวการมีสุขภาพที่ดีและความเป็นอยู่ที่ดีการศึกษาที่มีคุณภาพความเท่าเทียมกันทางเพศน้ำสะอาดและการสุขาภิบาลพลังงานที่ราคาไม่แพงและสะอาดการทำงานที่มีคุณค่าและการเติบโตทางเศรษฐกิจอุตสาหกรรมนวัตกรรมและโครงสร้างพื้นฐานลดความเหลื่อมล้ำ
เมืองและชุมชนที่ยั่งยืน, การบริโภคและการผลิตอย่างรับผิดชอบ,
การดำเนินการกับสภาพภูมิอากาศ, ชีวิตใต้น้ำ, ชีวิตบนบก,
สันติภาพและความยุติธรรมสถาบันและความร่วมมือที่เข้มแข็งเพื่อบรรลุเป้าหมาย
แต่ในบทความนี้เราจะเน้นไปที่ SDG ที่ 10 นั่นคือ Reduced Inequality.

ในโลกปัจจุบันความไม่เท่าเทียมกันเกิดขึ้นในหลายรูปแบบเช่นความไม่เท่าเทียมกันในด้านการศึกษาเพศการทำงานหรือแม้แต่ในทางเศรษฐศาสตร์
ความเหลื่อมล้ำมีมาช้านานแล้วเช่นในปี 2523 หนึ่งในอันดับแรกมีรายได้ 16
เปอร์เซ็นต์ของรายได้ทั่วโลก ด้านล่าง 50 เปอร์เซ็นต์มีรายได้ 8
เปอร์เซ็นต์และในปี 2559 22 เปอร์เซ็นต์ของรายได้ทั่วโลกได้รับจาก 1
เปอร์เซ็นต์แรกเทียบกับ 10 เปอร์เซ็นต์ของรายได้สำหรับ 50 เปอร์เซ็นต์ล่าง
อย่างที่คุณเห็นไม่มีการเปลี่ยนแปลงความเท่าเทียมกันมานานแล้ว
โลกของเราจะมีความไม่เท่าเทียมกันเสมอไม่ว่าเราจะอยู่ที่ไหน
แต่สิ่งที่เราทำได้คือจำกัดความไม่เท่าเทียมกันหรือช่วยเหลือผู้ที่ได้รับผลกระทบ
แต่เราจะช่วยผู้ที่ได้รับผลกระทบจากความเหลื่อมล้ำได้อย่างไร ?
ความเหลื่อมล้ำที่ขยายกว้างขึ้นเหล่านี้จำเป็นต้องมีนโยบายที่ดีเพื่อส่งเสริมผู้มีรายได้ที่ลดลงและส่งเสริมการรวมกลุ่มทางเศรษฐกิจโดยไม่คำนึงถึงเพศเชื้อชาติหรือชาติพันธุ์

เราจะช่วยความไม่เท่าเทียมในโลกของเราในปัจจุบันได้อย่างไร ?
เราสามารถเริ่มต้นด้วยการลดความไม่เท่าเทียมกันของรายได้ส่งเสริมการรวมทางเศรษฐกิจสังคมและการเมืองที่เป็นสากลให้โอกาสที่เท่าเทียมกันและยุติการเลือกปฏิบัติใช้นโยบายการคลังและสังคมที่ส่งเสริมความเท่าเทียมกันปรับปรุงกฎระเบียบของตลาดการเงินและสถาบันทั่วโลกเพิ่มการเป็นตัวแทนของประเทศกำลังพัฒนาในสถาบันการเงิน
การตอบสนองและการจัดการที่ดีนโยบายการย้ายถิ่นการปฏิบัติที่พิเศษและแตกต่างกันสำหรับประเทศกำลังพัฒนาส่งเสริมความช่วยเหลือด้านการพัฒนาและการลงทุนในประเทศที่พัฒนาน้อยที่สุดและลดต้นทุนการทำธุรกรรมสำหรับการส่งเงินผู้อพยพ

สรุปได้ว่าความเหลื่อมล้ำที่ลดลงจะไม่สามารถบรรลุผลได้หากไม่ได้รับความช่วยเหลือจากทั้งรัฐบาลและประชาชน
ดังนั้นขอแนะนำให้ใครก็ตามที่อ่านบทความนี้เผยแพร่ข่าวเกี่ยวกับความไม่เท่าเทียมกันและช่วยเหลือในทุก
ๆ
ทางที่สามารถทำได้เพราะเชื่อว่าหากเราร่วมมือกันเราจะสามารถบรรลุเป้าหมายในการลดความเหลื่อมล้ำภายในปี
2573

<img src="assets/articles/TriamMUN-SDG10_assets/media/image1.png" style="width:5.01042in;height:2.50417in" />
