---
title: MUN: Things that You May Don’t Know
author: Raiwin Vongsakajornkit
thumbnail: /assets/articles/_thumbnails/thumb_17.jpg
---

What is Model United Nation ? You may not even know what it is when you
first started reading this. Model United Nation, at first, was confusing
and also quite frightening for me. It looked like a collection of
serious folks doing businesslike things, wearing suits, and debating all
day. I had never thought that I would have become one of them, but this
was later proven to be wrong. As I become more integrated in this
community of “men in black”, I soon realized that It wasn’t that bad
after all.

First thing that you may not know about MUN is that it is not as serious
as it has been presumed. MUN was always presumed by outsiders to be “a
serious organization with competitive members”, and it has been like
that for past few years. Long before I joined, I heard this bewildering
rumor as well, but now, I’m to certain that everything is not pressuring
at all in this club.

Another thing is that you may be deceived by the procedures of MUN and
deemed it to be hard and confusing. I would argue this and say that MUN
is certainly easy to learn and do. It only requires some practices, but
after a few times you will get a hang of it. It can be super fun and
exciting, even though some may say it’s somewhat difficult.

One more thing is that MUN doesn’t require you to know all about it when
you join. You don’t have to memorize the world map, or learn the entire
history of the United Nations. You can always find out later when you
research and start mastering it step by step. After that, you will enjoy
your stay with one of the best roleplays in the world.

Model United Nation may be confusing at first, discouraging even. Some
may perceive it far from the real reality of what it actually is. It may
not be perfect and differ from one’s opinion, but it will serve as a
path for more experiences to come. Do not be scared of it, because
sometimes the best come from the unexpected !

**สหประชาชาติจำลอง: สิ่งที่หลายคนอาจไม่รู้**

สหประชาชาติจำลองคืออะไร ? หลายคนอาจจะยังไม่รู้ด้วยซ้ำว่ามันคืออะไร
เป็นอย่างไร ทำอย่างไร ตอนแรกที่ผมเข้ามาในชมรมสหประชาชาติจำลองนี้
ผมก็งงและกลัวคล้าย ๆ กัน ชมรมนี้ผมมองว่าเป็นชมรมของคนที่ดูจริงจังกับงาน
ใส่สูท และก็นั่งโต้วาที หารือกันตลอดทั้งวัน

สิ่งแรกที่น้องอาจจะยังไม่รู้เกี่ยวกับสหประชาชาติจำลองคือ
มันไม่ได้จริงจังอย่างที่คิดหรือคาดไว้
สหประชาชาติจำลองจะถูกมองในสายตาคนภายนอกว่าเป็นกลุ่มคนที่จริงจังและบ้าการแข่งขัน
ซึ่งก่อนที่ผมจะได้เข้ามา ผมก็ได้ยินคำพูดนี้จากเพื่อนผมเช่นกัน
ผมอยากจะบอกเลยว่าในชมรมแห่งนี้ ไม่มีความกดดันตึงเครียดเลย

อีกอย่างก็คือน้อง ๆ อาจจะมองสหประชาชาติจำลองผิดไป
โดยคิดว่ามันยากและสับสนจากขั้นตอนการดำเนินการต่าง ๆ
อยากพูดว่าสหประชาชาติจำลองนั้นง่ายที่จะเรียนรู้และเล่นเป็นอย่างมาก
แค่ต้องการการฝึกซ้อมบ้าง แต่หลังจากการเล่นไป 2-3 ครั้งแล้ว
เดี๋ยวก็จะชินเอง แล้วก็จะพบว่า
สหประชาชาติจำลองนั้นสนุกและตื่นเต้นมากถึงแม้บางคนจะบอกว่ามันยาก

อีกเรื่องคือการเล่นสหประชาชาติจำลองนั้นไม่จำเป็นต้องรู้มากก่อนจะเริ่มเล่นได้
น้องไม่ต้องจำแผนที่โลก หรือเรียนประวัติศาสตร์ทั้งหมดของสหประชาชาติ
น้องสามารถไปเรียนรู้ต่อได้ตอนที่น้องเริ่มทำการศึกษา
และเริ่มเข้าใจสหประชาชาติจำลองมากขึ้น หลังจากนั้น
น้องจะมีความสุขมากในการเข้าร่วมชมรมโรลเพลย์ที่ดีที่สุดในโลกแห่งนี้

สหประชาชาติจำลองอาจจะดูสับสนตอนเริ่ม บางครั้งอาจถึงขั้นท้อใจด้วยซ้ำ
บางคนอาจจะมองสหประชาชาติต่างออกจากความเป็นจริงอย่างมากด้วย
ชมรมนี้อาจไม่สมบูรณ์แบบ และอาจจะแตกต่างกันไปตามมุมมองของแต่ละคน
แต่ชมรมนี้จะเป็นเส้นทางที่นำไปสู่ประสบการณ์ที่ล้ำค่าต่อ ๆ ไป ไม่ต้องกลัว
เพราะบางครั้งสิ่งที่ดีที่สุดจะมาจากสิ่งที่คาดไม่ถึง

<img src="/assets/articles/TriamMUN-MUN-things_assets/media/image1.jpg" style="width:3.45208in;height:2.30417in" />
